National Assembly
-------

Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Independence - Freedom - Happiness
---------------

Law No. 43/2019/QH14

Hanoi, June 14, 2019



LAW

EDUCATION

Pursuant to the Constitution of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam;

The National Assembly promulgates the Education Law.

Chapter I

General regulations

Article 1. Scope of adjustment

This law stipulates the national education system;educational institutions, teachers, learners;State management of education;rights and responsibilities of agencies, organizations and individuals related to educational activities.

Article 2. Education goals

Education goals to comprehensively develop Vietnamese people with morality, knowledge, culture, health, aesthetics and occupation;have citizen quality, capacity and consciousness;have patriotism, national spirit, loyalty to the ideal of national independence and socialism;promote the potential and creative ability of each individual;Improve people's intellectuality, develop human resources, foster talents, meet the requirements of the cause of building, defending the Fatherland and international integration.

Article 3. Properties and principles of educational

1. Vietnamese education is a socialist education with people, ethnicity, science and modernity, taking Marxism - Leninism and Ho Chi Minh thought as the foundation.

2. Educational activities are carried out in accordance with the principle of learning in parallel with the practice, the theory is associated with practice, the school education in combination with family education and social education.

Article 4. Education development

1. Education development is the leading national policy.

2. Education development must be associated with the needs of socio -economic development, scientific and technological progress, national defense and security consolidation;Perform standardization, modernization and socialization;ensure balance of industry structure, qualifications, human resources and regions;expand the scale on the basis of quality assurance and efficiency;Combining training and use.

3. Developing an open education system, building a learning society to create opportunities for people to access education, to study at all levels, all forms and lifelong learning.

Article 5. Explain words

In this law, the words below are understood as follows:

1. The formal education is educational according to the course in educational institutions to implement a certain educational program, established according to the goals of all levels of education, training level and granted diploma of the system.National education system.

2. Continuing education is educational to implement a certain educational program, flexible organization of the form of program implementation, time, method, location, meeting the needs of lifelong learningof learners.

3. Educational quality accreditation is an evaluation and recognition of educational institutions or training programs that meet the educational quality standards promulgated by competent agencies and organizations.

4. Processing year is the form of organizing the process of education and training according to the school year.

5. Credits are the unit used to measure the amount of knowledge, skills and learning results that have accumulated in a certain period of time.

6. Module is a learning unit that integrates the knowledge, skills and attitudes completely to help learners have the ability to fully perform one or several jobs of a profession.

7. Output standard is a requirement to meet the quality and competency of learners after completing an educational program.

8. Education universalization is the process of organizing educational activities so that all citizens of the age are learned and reach a certain level of education as prescribed by law.

9. Compulsory education is an education that all citizens of the age of the regulation are required to study to achieve the minimum education level in accordance with the law and be guaranteed by the State to implement.

10. The amount of high school cultural knowledge is the basic knowledge, skills, the core of the high school education program that learners must accumulate to be able to continue studying vocational education levelhigher.

11. Investors are organizations and individuals carrying out investment activities in the field of education with non -state budget capital including domestic investors and foreign investors.

12. Educational institutions are organizing educational activities in the national education system including schools and other educational institutions.

Article 6. National education system

1. The national education system is an open and connected education system including formal education and continuing education.

2. Education, training level of the national education system includes:

a) Preschool education includes kindergarten education and kindergarten education;

b) General education includes primary education, lower secondary education and high school education;

c) Vocational training in primary level, intermediate level, college level and other vocational training programs;

d) Higher education for university level, master's degree and doctoral level.

3. The Prime Minister decided to approve the structure of the national education system and the national level of Vietnam;Regulate the training time and standards for each level of dumbbells o, the minimum learning volume for the qualifications of vocational education and higher education.

4. Minister of Education and Training, Minister of Labor, War Invalids and Social Affairs, within the scope of their duties and powers, regulating the input threshold of college and university level under the industryTraining teachers and industry in the field of health.

Article 7. Requirements for content, educational methods

1. The content of education must ensure the basic, comprehensive, practical, modern, systematic and regular updated;attaching importance to educating ideology, moral qualities and citizens' consciousness;Inheriting and promoting good traditions, national cultural identity, absorbing the quintessence of human culture;Suitable for physical development, intelligence, age psychology and the ability of learners.

2. Education methods must be scientific, promote the positive, self -consciousness, initiative and creative thinking of learners;Fostering learners self -study and cooperation, practical ability, passion for learning and the will to rise.

Article 8. Education program

1. Educational programs show educational goals;stipulating standards of knowledge, skills, requirements to achieve the quality and capacity of learners;scope and structure of educational content;Methods and forms of educational activities;How to evaluate educational results for subjects in each class, each level or subjects, modules, and disciplines for each level of training.

2. Education programs must ensure science and practice;Inheritance and interconnection between levels of education, training level;create conditions for the flow and transition between training levels, training sectors and educational forms in the national education system so that the locality and educational institutions can actively implement appropriate educational plans;Meet gender equality goals, international integration requirements.The educational program is a basis for ensuring comprehensive quality of education.

3. Standard knowledge, skills, requirements to achieve the quality and competencies of learners prescribed in the educational program must be concretized into textbooks for general education;Curriculum and teaching materials for vocational education and higher education.Textbooks, curriculum and teaching materials must meet the requirements of educational methods.

4. The educational program is organized according to the school year for preschool education and general education;According to the year or by the mode of accumulation of modules or credits or a combination of credits and the year for vocational education and higher education.

The results of learning subjects or credits, modules that learners accumulate when attending an educational program are recognized to consider the conversion value for the subject or credit, module, respectivelyIn other educational programs when a person specializes in training, transferring the form of learning or learning to level, higher level of training.

5. Minister of Education and Training, Minister of Labor, War Invalids and Social Affairs, within the scope of their duties and powers, stipulating the implementation of the educational program and the recognition of valueConvert learning results in training levels of higher education and vocational education as prescribed in this Article.

Article 9. Career and channeling in education

1. Career in education is a system of measures conducted inside and outside the educational institution to help students gain professional knowledge, the ability to choose a career on the basis of combining aspirations and forte ofIndividuals with the labor demand of society.

2. Streaming in education is a measure to organize educational activities on the basis of vocational training in education, creating favorable conditions for students to graduate from junior high school and high school to continue studying at the level of education., higher level or study vocational education or participate in labor in accordance with the capacity and specific conditions of individuals and social needs, contributing to regulating the industry's industry structure.suitable to the country's development requirements.

3. The Government details vocational guidance and streaming in education in each stage in accordance with the socio -economic development needs.

Article 10. Confusion in education

1Other training is consistent with the corresponding content requirements, ensuring the connection between all levels of education, the level of training in general education, vocational education and higher education.

2. Constant in education must meet the conditions of quality assurance.The educational program is designed in the direction of inheritance, integrating knowledge and skills based on the output standards of each level of training level in the Vietnamese national level framework.Learners do not have to re -learn knowledge and skills accumulated in previous educational programs.

3. The Government details the connection between levels and training levels in the system National education pipe.

Article 11. Language, writing used in educational institutions

1. Vietnamese is the official language used in educational institutions.Based on educational goals and specific requirements on educational content, the Government stipulates the teaching and learning in foreign languages ​​in the educational institution.

2. The State encourages and creates conditions for ethnic minorities to learn the voice and writing of their people in accordance with the Government's regulations;People with disabilities listen and speak in signs of symbolic, people with disabilities who look at Braille braille in accordance with the Law on People with Disabilities.

3. Foreign language stipulated in the educational program is a commonly used language in international transactions.The organization of foreign language teaching in educational institutions must ensure that learners learn continuously and effectively.

Article 12. Diploma and certificate

1. The diploma of the national education system is granted to learners after graduation or after completing the educational program, meeting the output standard of the corresponding level in accordance with this Law.

2. Diploma of the national education system including junior high school diploma, high school diploma, intermediate diploma, college diploma, bachelor's degree, master's degree, advanced diplomaSi and literature equivalent.

3. Certificate of the national education system is granted to learners to confirm the academic results after being trained and fostered to improve the level of education, career or grant to learners taking the exam to get certificatesAs prescribed.

4. Diplomas and certificates are educated by all types and forms of training in the national education system with the same legal value.

5. The Government promulgates a system of higher education diplomas and the equivalent degree of a number of specialized training industries.

Article 13. Rights and obligations of citizens

1. Learning is the right and obligations of citizens.All citizens do not distinguish ethnic groups, religions, beliefs, gender, personal characteristics, family origin, social status, economic circumstances are equal in learning opportunities.

2. The State implements social justice in education, creating a safe educational environment, ensuring integration education, creating conditions for learners to promote their potential and talent.

3. The State prioritizes, creating conditions for learners to be children in special circumstances in accordance with the Law on Children, learners who are disabled in accordance with the Law on People with Disabilitiesnear -poor households exercise their rights and obligations.

Article 14. Universal education and compulsory education

1. Primary education is compulsory education.

The State carries out universal preschool education for children 05 years old and universal secondary education.

2. The State is responsible for conducting compulsory education in the country;decide the plan, ensure the conditions for implementing education universalization.

3. All citizens of the prescribed age are obliged to study to implement universal education and complete compulsory education.

4. Families and guardians are responsible for creating conditions for family members of the prescribed age to study to implement education universalization and compulsory education.

Article 15. Integration education

1. Integration education is an educational method to meet the different needs and capabilities of learners;ensure equality, educational quality, in accordance with the needs, characteristics and capabilities of learners;respect the diversity and difference of learners and regardless of discrimination.

2. The State has a policy to support the implementation of integration education for learners who are children in special circumstances in accordance with the Law on Children, learners who are disabled in accordance with the Law on People with Disabilities andOther relevant laws.

Article 16. Socialization of education career

1. Developing education, building a learning society is the cause of the State and the entire people.

2. The State plays a leading role in developing education.Implement diversifying types of educational institutions and educational forms;encourage, mobilize and create conditions for organizations and individuals to participate in the development of education;Encourage the development of private and private education institutions to meet the social needs of high quality education.

3. Organizations, families and individuals are responsible for taking care of the cause of education, coordinating with educational institutions to implement educational goals, building a safe and healthy educational environment.

4. Organizations and individuals who have achievements in education are rewarded in accordance with the law.

Article 17. Investment for education

1. Investment in education is development investment.Investment in the field of education is an investment activity of conditional business and investment industry, and investment support and support in accordance with the law.

2. The State prioritizes investment and attracts other investment sources for education;Prioritize investment in universal education and education development in mountainous areas, islands, ethnic minority areas, areas with extremely difficult socio -economic conditions, areas where areas have areas industrial.

The State encourages and protects the legitimate rights and interests of domestic organizations and individuals and Vietnamese residing abroad, foreign organizations and individuals investing in education.

3. The state budget plays a leading role in the total investment resources for education.

Article 18. The role and responsibility of educational managers

1. Educational managers play an important role in organizing, managing and operating educational activities.

2. Educational managers are responsible for learning, training, improving ethical qualities, professional qualifications, management capacity and implementation of standards and standards as prescribed by law.

3. The State plans to build and improve the quality of educational management staff.

Article 19. Scientific and technological activities

1. Scientific and technological activities are a duties of educational institutions.

2. Educational institutions deploy or coordinate with scientific and technological organizations, production, business establishments, services in training, scientific research and technology transfer, serving developmentsocio -economic.

3. The State creates conditions for educational institutions to scientific and technological activities, combining training with scientific research and production in order to improve the quality of education;Building educational institutions into a central, scientific and technological center of the country or the whole country.

4. The State has a priority policy to develop scientific and technological activities in educational institutions.The guidelines and policies on education must be built on the basis of scientific research results suitable to Vietnamese practices and international trends.

Article 20. Not spreading religion in educational institutions

Do not spread religion, conduct religious rituals in educational institutions of the national education system, state agencies, political organizations, socio -political organizations and people's armed forces.

Article 21. Prohibit taking advantage of education activities

1. Prohibit taking advantage of educational activities to misrepresent the guidelines, policies and laws of the State, against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, divide the great unity bloc of the entire nation, incite violenceThe force, propaganda of the war of aggression, destroying the customs and traditions, spreading superstition, customs, enticing learners into social evils.

2. Prohibit taking advantage of educational activities for self -interest purposes.

Article 22. Acts are strictly prohibited in educational institutions

1. Instructing dignity, honor, infringing on the body of teachers, officials and employees of educational institutions and learners.

2. Misradation of educational content.

3. Fraud in learning, testing, exam, enrollment.

4. Smoking;drink alcohol and beer;Causing security and order.

5. Forcing students to study extra to collect money.

6. Taking advantage of the sponsorship and support of education to force to contribute money or artifacts.

Chapter II

National education system

Section 1. Levels and training levels

Sub -section 1. Preschool education

Article 23. Position, role and goals of preschool education

1. Preschool education is the first level of education in the national education system, laying the foundation for the comprehensive development of Vietnamese people, carrying out the nurturing, care and education of children from 03 months of ageto 06 years old.

2. Preschool education is to comprehensively develop children physically, emotionally, intellect, aesthetics, forming the first element of personality, preparing children to enter the first grade.

Article 24. Requirements for content and methods of preschool education

1. The content of preschool education must be suitable for the physiological development of children;harmonizing, caring, nurturing with children's education;comprehensive development of physical, emotional, social skills, intelligence and aesthetics;respect the difference;Suitable for age and connected with primary education.

2. Preschool education methods are prescribed as follows:

a) Educating kindergartens must create favorable conditions for children to actively work, play and create attachment between adults and children;stimulate the development of senses, emotions and psychological functions;

b) Kindergarten education must create conditions for children to have fun, experience, explore and explore the surrounding environment in many forms, meet the needs and excitement of children.

Article 25. Program of preschool education

1. Preschool education program must ensure the following requirements:

a) Demonstrate preschool education goals;

b) Regulations on requirements to be achieved at each age, educational activities, methods and forms of educational activities, educational environment, assessing children's development;

c) Consistent throughout the country and are flexibly implemented, in accordance with specific conditions of the locality and preschool education institutions.

2. The National Council evaluates the preschool education program established by the Minister of Education and Training to evaluate the preschool education program.The Council includes teachers, educational managers, experienced scientists, educational reputation and representatives of relevant agencies and organizations.The Council must have at least one -third of the total number of members who are teaching in preschool education.Council and Thanh Council members are responsible for the content and quality of appraisal.

3. The Minister of Education and Training promulgates preschool education programs after being appraised by the National Council for appraisal of preschool education program;defining criteria and process of compiling and editing preschool education programs;Regulations on standards and selection of toys and learning materials are used in preschool institutions;defining tasks, powers, operating methods, standards, quantity and member structure of the National Council evaluating preschool education programs.

Article 26. Preschool education institutions

Preschool education institutions include:

1. Independent children's kindergartens receive children from 03 months to 03 years old;

2. Kindergarten and independent kindergarten schools receive children from 03 to 06 years old;

3. Kindergartens, independent preschool classes are educational institutions combining kindergartens and kindergartens, taking children from 03 months to 06 years old.

Article 27. Policy of developing preschool education

1. The State has policies to invest in developing preschool education;Priority is given to the development of preschool education in mountainous areas, islands, ethnic minority areas, areas with extremely difficult socio -economic conditions and industrial parks.

2. The State has policies to encourage organizations and individuals to invest in developing preschool education to meet social needs.

3. The Government details this.

Sub -section 2. General education

Article 28. Education and age of general education

1. The education level and the age of general education are prescribed as follows:

a) Primary education is carried out for 05 years, from grade one to the end of the fifth grade.The age of students in first grade is 06 years old and is calculated by year;

b) Secondary education is carried out for 04 years, from six to the end of the nine class.Students in the sixth grade must complete the elementary program.The age of students in the sixth grade is 11 years old and is calculated by year;

c) High school education is carried out in 03 years, from grade tenth to the end of the twelfth grade.Students in the tenth grade must have a secondary diploma.The age of the tenth grade is 15 years old and is calculated by year.

2. In case students are allowed to overcome classes and study at age than age as prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article, including:

a) Students study class in case of early development in intelligence;

b) Students at age are older than the prescribed age in the case of students who study the board and students in areas with extremely difficult socio -economic conditions, students are ethnic minorities and students.As a disabled person, students are underdeveloped in physical or intellectual, orphaned orphaned students, poor students, students from abroad to return to the country and other cases as prescribed by law.

3. General education is divided into basic education phase and career -oriented education phase.The basic education period includes elementary and junior high school level;The period of career -oriented education is high school level.Students in vocational education institutions learn the amount of high school cultural knowledge.

4. The Minister of Education and Training stipulates the teaching and learning of Vietnamese for children who are ethnic minorities before attending first grade;teaching the volume of high school cultural knowledge in vocational education institutions;The cases specified in Clause 2 of this Article.

Article 29. Objectives of general education

1. General education is to develop comprehensively for learners in morality, intelligence, physical, aesthetics, basic skills, develop personal capacity, dynamic and creative;forming socialist Vietnamese personality and citizenship;Prepare for learners to continue studying higher education programs, vocational education or participating in labor, building and defending the Fatherland.

2. Primary education aims to form an initial basis for the development of ethics, intelligence, physical, aesthetics and capacity of students;Prepare for students to continue lower secondary school.

3. Secondary education to strengthen and develop the results of primary education;Ensuring students with the foundation and knowledge of the minimum technical and vocational guidance to continue high school or vocational education programs.

4. High school education to equip citizenship knowledge;ensure that students consolidate and develop the results of lower secondary education, improve high school education and have common knowledge about techniques and vocational guidance;Having conditions to promote personal capacity to choose the development direction, continue studying higher education programs, vocational education or participating in labor, building and defending the Fatherland.

Article 30. Requirements for content and methods of general education

1. The content of general education must ensure common, basic, comprehensive, vocational and systematic;associated with real life, suitable for the psychological psychology of students, meeting the educational goals at each level.

2. Requirements on general education content At all levels, it is prescribed as follows:

a) Primary education must ensure that students' platforms develop comprehensively physically, emotional and social skills;have simple and necessary knowledge, society and people;have social morality awareness;have basic skills in listening, speaking, reading, writing and calculating;have a habit of physical training and hygiene;have initial understanding of singing, dancing, music, art;

b) Secondary education for consolidation and development of content learned in elementary schools, ensuring that students have basic general knowledge about Vietnamese, Mathematics and national history;Other knowledge about social sciences, natural sciences, law, informatics, foreign languages;have essential minimum technical and vocational guidance;

c) High school education consolidated and developed content learned in junior high school, completed the content of general education;Ensuring basic, comprehensive and vocational knowledge standards for students, with advanced content in some subjects to develop their competencies and meet the aspirations of students.

3. Methods of general education promote the activeness, self -awareness, initiative and creativity of students in accordance with the characteristics of each subject, class and characteristics of students;fostering self -study methods, interested in learning, cooperation skills, independent thinking ability;comprehensive development of the quality and capacity of learners;Strengthen the application of information technology and communication in the education process.

Article 31. General education program

1. The general education program must ensure the following requirements:

a) Demonstrate general education goals;

b) Regulations on requirements on the quality and capacity of students to be achieved after each level, compulsory education content for all students throughout the country;

c) Regulating methods and forms of educational activities and evaluation of educational results for subjects in each class, each level of general education;

d) Unified throughout the country and are organized flexibly, in accordance with specific conditions of the locality and general education institutions;

d) Be widely consulted organizations, individuals and experiments before issuing;published publicly after issuance.

2. The National Council evaluates the general education program established by the Minister of Education and Training to evaluate the general education program.The Council includes teachers, educational managers, experienced scientists, educational reputation and representatives of relevant agencies and organizations.The Council must have at least one -third of the total number of members who are teaching at the corresponding education level.Council and members of the Council are responsible for the content and quality of appraisal.

3. The Minister of Education and Training is responsible for the quality of general education programs;Promulgating the general education program after being appraised by the National Council for appraisal of the general education program;defining standards and processes of compiling and editing general education programs;regulations on objectives, subjects, scale and experimental time some new contents and methods of educational methods in general education institutions;defining tasks, powers, operating methods, standards, quantity and membership structure of the National Council for appraising the general education program.

Article 32. General education textbooks

1. General education textbooks are prescribed as follows:

a) Textbooks to implement the general education program, concretize the requirements of the general education program on the objectives, educational content, the requirements of students' qualities and competencies;orientation on teaching methods and how to check and evaluate the quality of education;The content and form of textbooks do not carry national prejudice, religion, occupation, gender, age and social status;Textbooks are shown in the form of printed books, Braille braille books, electronic books;

b) Each subject has one or some textbooks;socialize the compilation of textbooks;The publication of textbooks complies with the law;

c) The provincial People's Committee decides the selection of stable textbooks in general education institutions in the area according to the Minister of Education and Training;

d) Local education documents organized by the provincial People's Committee to meet the needs and in accordance with the local characteristics, appraised by the provincial appraisal council and the Minister of Education and TrainingCreate approval.

2. The National Council evaluates textbooks established by the Minister of Education and Training for each subject, educational activities at each level to evaluate textbooks.The Council includes teachers, educational managers, experienced scientists, educational reputation and representatives of relevant agencies and organizations.The Council must have at least one -third of the total number of members who are teaching at the corresponding education level.Council and members of the Council are responsible for the content and quality of appraisal.

3. Minister of Education and Training is responsible for S EXPLOITATION OF MANUMAN Education textbooks;Approving textbooks for use in general education institutions after being appraised by the National Council for appraisal of textbooks;defining standards and processes of compilation and editing of general education textbooks;stipulate the selection of textbooks in general education institutions;defining tasks, powers, operating methods, standards, quantity and membership structure of the National Council for appraisal of textbooks and provincial evaluation councils.

4. The President of the provincial People's Committee decides the establishment of the provincial evaluation council to evaluate local education documents.

Article 33. General education institutions

The general education institution includes:

1. Primary school;

2. Junior high school;

3. High school;

4. High schools have many levels of education.

Article 34. Confirmation of completion of Primary, High School and Literature Graduation and Secondary Diploma

1. Students who study at the elementary program are eligible as prescribed by the Minister of Education and Training shall be confirmed by the school principal of the school transcript to complete the Primary Program.

2. Students who study at the end of the lower secondary program are eligible as prescribed by the Minister of Education and Training, shall be granted a diploma by the head of the educational agency of the district People's Committee.junior high school.

3. Students who study at the end of high school program are eligible as prescribed by the Minister of Education and Training, they may take the exam and meet the requirements, they are shown by the head of the educational agency under the Committee of the Committee.The provincial people granted a high school diploma.

Students who study the high school program are eligible for the examination in accordance with the Minister of Education and Training, but if they do not take the exam or the exam, they are not satisfactory, they are granted the certificate of completion by the school.General education.

The certificate of completion of the general education program is used to register for a high school diploma when the learner needs or to study vocational education and use it in a specific case.provisions of law.

4. Students have a secondary diploma, study intermediate level in vocational education institutions, after studying and testing the requirements of sufficient volume of high school cultural knowledge as prescribedof the Minister of Education and Training shall be organized by the head of the educational institution to teach the volume of high school cultural knowledge issued a certificate of sufficient requirements for the volume of high school cultural knowledge.

The certificate of sufficient requirements for high school cultural knowledge is used to attend the higher level of vocational education and use in specific cases in accordance with the law.

Sub -section 3. Career education

Article 35. The level of vocational education training

Vocational education training at primary level, intermediate level, college level and other vocational training programs for learners, meeting the needs of human resources directly in production, business and services.

Article 36. Objectives of vocational education

Vocational education is aimed at training human resources directly for production, business and services, with the capacity to practice corresponding to the training level;have morality and health;professional responsibility;have the ability to create and adapt to the international integration environment;ensure improving productivity and quality of labor;create conditions for learners after completing the course capable of finding jobs, creating jobs or higher levels.

Article 37. Organization and vocational education activities

Organizing and vocational education activities shall comply with this Law and the Vocational Education Law.

Section 4. Higher education

Article 38. Higher education training levels

Higher education training at university level, master's degree, doctoral level.

Article 39. Objectives of higher education

1. High quality human resource training, raising people's intellectuality and fostering talents;Scientific and technological research creates new knowledge and products, serving the needs of socio -economic development, ensuring national defense, security and international integration.

2. Training learners to develop comprehensively in Germany, Tri, Body and United States;have knowledge, skills, professional responsibilities;Ability to grasp scientific and technological advances commensurate with the level of training, self -study, creativity, adapting to the working environment;There is a spirit of career and consciousness to serve the people.

Article 40. Organization and education activities

Organization and higher education activities are implemented in accordance with this Law and the Law on Higher Education.

Section 2. Continuing education

Article 41. Objectives of Continuing Education

Continuing education in order to create conditions for people to do, study, study continuously, and lifelong learning to promote personal capacity, perfect personality, expand their understanding, improve education, specializesubjects, professional skills to find jobs, create self -employment c doing and adapting to social life;contribute to building a learning society.

Article 42. The task of continuing education

1. Implementing illiteracy for people of age as prescribed by law.

2. Training and fostering to improve working capacity;update and supplement the necessary knowledge and skills in life for everyone;Create opportunities for people wishing to study to improve their education.

Article 43. Programs, forms, content and methods of continuing education

1. Continuing education program includes:

a) The illiteracy erasing program;

b) The education program meets the requirements of learners;update knowledge, skills, technology transfer;

c) Training and fostering programs to improve occupational capacity;

d) The educational program belongs to the program to issue diplomas of the national education system.

2. The form of implementation of the continuing education program includes:

a) Study and study;

b) Remote study;

c) Self -study, self -study with guidance;

d) Other forms of learning according to the needs of learners.

3. Content of the Continuing Education Program specified at Points a, b and c, Clause 1 of this Article must ensure practicality, help learners improve their working, production, work and quality capacity.living.

Content of the Continuing Education Program specified at Point d, Clause 1 of this Article to reach a level in the frame of the national education system, the national level of Vietnam's level, must meet the requirements of the content of the content.The education program of the same level, the training level prescribed in Article 31 of this Law, the provisions of the Vocational Education Law and the Law on Higher Education.

4. Continuing education methods must promote the initiative of learners, attach importance to fostering self -study capacity;Use modern means and technology to improve the quality, effectiveness of teaching and learning.

5. Minister of Education and Training, Minister of Labor, War Invalids and Social Affairs, within the scope of their duties and powers, detailed regulations on programs, textbooks, textbooks, talentsContinuing education.

Article 44. Continuing education institutions

1. Continuing education is carried out at continuing educational institutions, general education institutions, vocational education institutions, higher education institutions, cultural institutions, at work, community, communityPopulation, through the mass media and other means.

2. Continuing educational institutions include:

a) Continuing education center;

b) Center for Vocational Education - Continuing Education;

c) Community learning center;

d) Other centers perform continuing education tasks.

3. Implementation of continuing education program of continuing educational institution is prescribed as follows:

a) The Center for Continuing Education, the Center for Vocational Education - Continuing Education implements the program specified in Clause 1, Article 43 of this Law, except for the educational program to get an intermediate and good diploma diploma.college career, bachelor's degree;

b) The community learning center implements the program specified at Points a and b, Clause 1, Article 43 of this Law;

c) Other centers perform the regular educational task of implementing the program specified at Points b and c, Clause 1, Article 43 of this Law.

4.The provisions of Point d, Clause 1, Article 43 of this Law, when authorized by a competent education agency.

5. The linkage of university degree training in the form of work and study is implemented in accordance with the Law on Higher Education.

Article 45. Evaluation and recognition of academic results

1. Students participating in the illiteracy erasing program, eligible as prescribed by the Minister of Education and Training are recognized to complete the illiteracy erasing program.

2. Students studying the secondary education program prescribed at Point d, Clause 1, Article 43 of this Law, eligible as prescribed by the Minister of Education and TrainingRegarding education under the People's Committee of the district -level level of secondary diploma.

3. Students studying high school programs are prescribed in Point d, Clause 1, Article 43 of this Law, eligible as prescribed by the Minister of Education and Trainingheads of professional educational agencies under provincial People's Committees granted high school diploma;In case of failure to take the exam or unsatisfactory exam, the head of the Continuing Education Center is granted a certificate of completion of the general education program.

4. Students complete the training program, meet the output standard of a training level in accordance with the provisions of the national level frame of Vietnam, they are granted a degree corresponding to the training level.

5. Students study training courses in different forms, if meeting the output standards of the educational program specified at Point b and Point c, Clause 1, Article 43 of this Law shall be granted a certificate corresponding to the curriculum.

Article 46. Policy of continuing education development

1. The State has policies to invest in continuing education development, implementing education for everyone, promoting adult learning, building a learning society;encourage organizations and individuals to participate, provide quality continuing education services, meet the lifelong learning needs of learners.

2. Agencies and organizations are responsible for creating favorable conditions for cadres, civil servants, officials and employees to regularly study and study for lifelong to develop themselves and improve the quality of life..

3.learn;Teachers' education and training institutions are responsible for researching on education, training and retraining of teachers of continuing educational institutions.

Chapter III

Schools, specialized schools and other educational institutions

Section 1. Organization, activities, duties and powers of the school

Article 47. Type of school in the national education system

1. The school in the national education system is organized by the following types:

a) Public school invested by the State, ensuring operational conditions and representatives of the owner;

b) The private school is organized by the grassroots community, including organizations and individuals in hamlets, hamlets, villages, villages, phum, squirrels, communes, wards and townships to build material facilities and securityEnsure operating conditions.

The type of private school is only applicable to preschool education institutions;

c) Private schools invested by domestic investors or foreign investors and ensure operational conditions.

Private schools operating for non -profit are the school that investors commit and fulfill their commitments for non -profit, recorded in the decision to establish or decide to change the type of school;non -profit activities, no capital withdrawal, no benefits;The annual accumulated profit of the unified common ownership is not divided to continue investing in the development of the school.

2. The conversion of the type of school in the national education system is implemented in accordance with the following principles:

a) Only change the type of school from private schools to private schools operating without profit;

b) Implementing the regulations of the Charter, Regulation on organization and operation of the type of school at each level, training level;

c) Ensuring the rights of teachers, lecturers, educational managers, workers and learners;

d) Do not lose land, capital and property.

3. The Government details the conversion of the type of school specified in Clause 2 of this Article.

Article 48. School of state agencies, political organizations, socio -political organizations, people's armed forces

1. The school of state agencies, political organizations, socio -political organizations is responsible for training and retraining cadres, civil servants and public employees.The school of the people's armed forces is responsible for training and retraining officers, non -commissioned officers, professional military personnel and defense workers;fostering leaders and state managers on tasks and knowledge of national defense and security.

School of state agencies, political organizations, socio -political organizations, people's armed forces are educational institutions of the national education system, organized and operated in accordance with the Law.Vocational education, higher education law and school charter at each level, training level when meeting the needs of socio -economic development and authorized by competent state agenciesEducation and implementation of the educational program are granted diplomas and certificates of the national education system.

2. The Government details this.

Article 49. Conditions for school establishment and conditions are allowed

1. The school is established when there is a project to establish a school in accordance with the socio -economic development planning and the planning of the educational network network in accordance with the Planning Law.

The scheme of establishing the school clearly defines the objectives, tasks, programs and educational content;land, facilities, equipment and locations are expected to build schools, organizational structure, resources and finance;Strategic direction for building and developing the school.

2. The school is allowed to be educated when meeting the following conditions:

a) Having land, facilities and equipment to meet the requirements of educational activities;The location of the school is to ensure the educational and safety environment for learners, teachers and workers;

b) Having an education and learning program and learning program according to regulations suitable to each level of training and training level;have a team of teachers and managers to meet the standards, sufficient in terms of quantity and synchronization in structure to ensure the implementation of the education program and organize educational activities;

c) Having sufficient financial resources as prescribed to ensure the maintenance and development of educational activities;

d) c The school organization and operation regulations.

3. Within the prescribed time limit, if the school has the conditions specified in Clause 2 of this Article, the competent state agency will permit educational activities;At the expiry of the prescribed time limit, if it is not eligible for the specified in Clause 2 of this Article, the decision will be revoked or the decision is allowed to allow the establishment.

Article 50. Suspension of educational activities

1. The school is suspended from educational activities in the following cases:

a) Having fraudulent acts to be allowed to allow educational activities;

b) Do not guarantee one of the conditions specified in Clause 2, Article 49 of this Law;

c) Persons who allow educational activities are not in accordance with their competence;

d) Failing to implement educational activities within the prescribed time limit from the date of educational activities;

d) Violating the provisions of the law on education being sanctioned for administrative violations at the level of suspension;

e) Other cases as prescribed by law.

2. The decision to suspend educational activities for the school must clearly identify the reason for suspension, the time limit for suspension, measures to ensure the rights and interests of teachers, educational managers, learners,Workers in the school and must publicize on the mass media.

3. Within the suspension time limit, if the cause of the suspension is overcome, the competent person decides to suspend the decision to allow the school to return educational activities.

Article 51. Merging, dividing, separating, dissolving school

1. The school merged, divided and separated must ensure the following requirements:

a) In accordance with the socio -economic development planning and the planning of the educational network network in accordance with the Planning Law;

b) Meet the needs of socio -economic development;

c) Ensuring the rights and interests of teachers and learners;

d) Contribute to improving the quality and effectiveness of education.

2. The school is dissolved in the following case:

a) Serious violations of regulations on management, organization and operation of the school;

b) Expiring time limit for suspension of educational activities without overcoming the cause of the suspension;

c) Objectives and content of activities in the establishment decision or allowing the establishment of the school are no longer suitable to the socio -economic development needs;

d) Do not ensure the quality of education;

d) At the request of organizations and individuals establishing the school.

3. Decision to merge, divide, separate and dissolve the school must clearly identify the reasons and measures to ensure the rights and interests of teachers, educational managers, learners, workers in schoolsand must be published publicly on the mass media.

Article 52. Competence, procedures for establishment or permission to establish;allow educational activities, suspend educational activities;Merging, dividing, separating, dissolving schools

1. The authority to establish a public school and allow the establishment of a private school, a private school is prescribed as follows:

a) The president of the district People's Committee decides for preschools, kindergartens, elementary schools, junior high schools, high schools with the highest level of education, the junior high school,semi -boarding ethnic minority schools, except for the case specified at Point d of this Clause;

b) The presidents of the provincial People's Committee decide for high schools, high schools with the highest level of education, including high school, boarding ethnic minority schools, high schoolsThe provincial area, except for the case specified at Points C and P, of this Clause;

c) Ministers and heads of ministerial -level agencies shall decide on affiliated secondary schools;

d) The Minister of Education and Training decides for submarine schools, pedagogical colleges and schools under the Ministry;Preschools, kindergartens, elementary schools, junior high schools, high schools are recommended by foreign diplomatic missions, inter -government international organizations;

d) The Minister of Labor, War Invalids and Social Affairs decides for colleges, except for pedagogical colleges;

e) The Prime Minister shall decide on higher education institutions.

2. Minister of Education and Training allow educational activities for higher education institutions.The authority allows educational activities for schools at all levels and other training levels to comply with the Government's regulations.

3. The person competent to establish or permit the establishment of a school competent to revoke the establishment decision or allow the establishment, decision to merge, divide, separate and dissolve the school.The competent person allows competent educational activities to decide to suspend educational activities.

In case of merger between schools, it is not established by the same competent authority, the competent authority is higher than the decision;In case the competent authority is equal, the competent authority is equal to the decision agreement.

4. The Government details the conditions, procedures for establishment or permission to establish;allow educational activities, suspend educational activities;Merging, dividing, separating, dissolving schools prescribed in Articles 49, 50, 51 and 52 of this law.

Article 53. Charter, organization and operation regulations of educational institutions

1. The school's charter is applied to all types of schools in preschool, general education, vocational education and have the following main contents:

a) The duties and powers of the school;

b) Organize educational activities in schools;

c) Tasks and rights of teachers;

d) The duties and rights of learners;

d) Organize and manage schools;

e) Finance and property of the school;

g) Relations between schools, families and society.

2. Regulations on organization and operation of educational institutions concretize the contents of the school charter to apply to each type of educational institution.

3. Minister of Education and Training, Minister of Labor, War Invalids and Social Affairs, within the scope of their duties and powers, promulgating the school charter, organization and operation regulations of the opportunityDepartment of Education.

Article 54. Investors

1. Investors carrying out investment activities in the field of education include:

a) Domestic investors are individuals with Vietnamese nationality and organizations established under Vietnamese law;

b) Foreign investors are individuals with foreign nationality and organizations establishing in accordance with foreign laws.

2. The rights and responsibilities of investors are stipulated as follows:

a) Through the school development plan in accordance with the law proposed by the School Council;

b) Decide on the total contribution of investors, the school development investment project, the mobilization of investment capital (if any);plans to use the annual revenue and expenditure difference or the school's hole treatment plan;through annual financial statements;

c) Election or election, dismissal and dismissal of the school council;

d) Organize the supervision and evaluation of the school council's activities;

d) Decide on promulgating, amending and supplementing financial regulations;through content related to finance and property in the Regulation on organization and operation of the school;

e) Contributing capital, on time and supervising the contribution of capital to the school under the establishment scheme;

g) Considering and handling violations causing damage of the school council in accordance with the law, the Regulation on organization and operation of the school;

h) Decision on reorganization and dissolution of the school in accordance with the law;

i) publicize the list of organizations and individuals contributing capital on the school's website;

k) Investors establishing private schools operating for non -profit are honored with the contribution of investment capital to be established, built and developed the school.

3. Investors set up a private educational institution to choose one of the following methods:

a) Investment in establishing economic organizations in accordance with the Law on Investment and Enterprise Law for economic organizations to establish private education institutions in accordance with this Law;

b) Directly invest in establishing private educational institutions in accordance with this Law.

Article 55. School Council

1. The school council of the public school is the school administration organization, exercise the right to represent the school, the parties with related interests and are prescribed as follows:

a) The school council for kindergartens, kindergartens, kindergartens, general education institutions decide on the direction of the school's operation, mobilize and supervise the use of resources for the school., associating the school with the community and society, ensuring the implementation of educational goals.

Composition of the school council for kindergartens, kindergartens, kindergartens, general education institutions include Secretary of the Party Committee, Principal, Trade Union President, Secretary of Ho Chi Minh Communist Youth Union, DaiThe professional group, representatives of the office group, representatives of the local government, the Board of Representatives of the parents and the representative of the student for the junior high school, the high school;

b) The school council for vocational education institutions complies with the provisions of the Vocational Education Law;

c) The school council for higher education institutions complies with the Law on Higher Education.

2. The school council of the kindergarten, kindergarten, and people -founded kindergarten are the organization of the school's right to represent the school owned by the community established by the community;take responsibility for deciding the direction of operation, planning, development plans, organization, personnel, finance and property, ensuring the implementation of educational goals, in accordance with the provisions of law.

The school council composition includes representatives of the community, representatives of the local government and capital contributors to build and maintain the school's activities.

3. The school council of the private school is the school management organization, exercising the right to represent investors and the parties with related interests, responsible for organizing the implementation of the investor's decision.

The composition of the school's school council invested by domestic investors and foreign investors, including representatives of investors, members inside and outside the school, elected by the investor conference, decided according to the rate.Capital contributed.

The composition of the school council of private schools is not for profit, invested by domestic investors including representatives of investors d o Investors elected and decided according to the capital contribution ratio;Members inside and outside the school.Members of the school include members of course, the Secretary of the Party Committee, the President of the Trade Union, the representative of the Executive Committee of the Ho Chi Minh Communist Youth Union are the school's study (if any), the Principal;The elected member is the representative of the teacher and the employee by the Meeting of the Plenum or the Delegate Conference of the School.Members outside the school include representatives of managers, educators, entrepreneurs, alumni, which are elected by the plenary conference or conference.

4. Procedures for establishment, organizational structure, tasks and powers of the school council for kindergartens, kindergartens, preschools, general education institutions are specified in the charter and regulations of the groupfunctions and activities of the school.The transfer of the authority of the Board of Directors to the school council for kindergartens, kindergartens, preschools, general education institutions complies with the Minister of Education and Training.

Article 56. Principal

1. The principal is the person responsible for managing and managing the school's activities, appointed or recognized by the competent authority.

2. The principal of the National Education System must be trained and fostered on school management and meet the principal standard.

3. Standards, duties and powers of the Principal;Procedures and procedures for appointing the Principal of preschool and general education institutions are prescribed by the Minister of Education and Training.

4. Standards, duties and powers of the Principal;Procedures and procedures for appointing the Principal of vocational education and higher education institutions shall comply with the provisions of the Law on Vocational Education, the Law on Higher Education and other relevant laws.

Article 57. Advisory Council in schools

1. The advisory council in the school was established by the Principal to advise the Principal to perform its duties and powers.

2. Organization and operation of the Advisory Council are specified in the school charter.

Article 58. Party organization in schools

Organizing the Communist Party of Vietnam in the school leading the school and operating within the framework of the Constitution and the law.

Article 59. Union, social organization in schools

Unions and social organizations in the school are responsible for contributing to the implementation of educational goals and operating in accordance with the law.

Article 60. Tasks and powers of the school

1. The school has the following tasks and powers:

a) Publicize the goals, programs, educational plans, conditions to ensure the quality of education, the results of evaluation and quality accreditation of education;The school's diploma and certificate system;

b) Organize enrollment, education, training, scientific research, transfer of training results and scientific research in accordance with the functions, tasks and powers;confirm or issue diplomas and certificates according to its competence;

c) Proactively propose needs, participate in recruiting teachers and workers in public schools;manage and use teachers and employees;learned from learners;

d) Mobilize, manage and use resources in accordance with the law;building facilities according to standardization and modernization requirements;

d) Coordinate with families, organizations and individuals in educational activities;Organize teachers, workers and learners to participate in social activities and serve the community.

2. The performance of tasks, organizational structure, personnel and financial school of the public school is stipulated as follows:

a) Preschool education institutions and general education institutions implement democratic regulations in schools;responsible for explaining to society, learners, management agencies;ensure the participation of learners, families and society in school management.The management in preschool institutions and public general education institutions comply with the Government's regulations;

b) Vocational education institutions, higher education institutions exercise autonomy, responsibility to explain in accordance with the Law on Vocational Education, Higher Education Law and other relevant laws..

3. Private schools, self -control and self -responsibility schools for school development plannings and plans, organizing educational activities, construction and development of teachers, mobilizing and usingand manage resources to achieve educational goals.

Section 2. Specialized schools and other educational institutions

Article 61. Ethnic minority schools, semi -boarding ethnic minority schools, preparatory schools

1. The State establishes boarding schools, semi -boarding ethnic minority high schools, preparatory schools for learners who are ethnic minorities, people who have permanent settlement of families in the areasocio -economic conditions are especially difficult.

2. Ethnic minority schools, semi -boarding ethnic minority schools, university preparatory schools are given priority to arrange teachers, facilities, equipment and budgets.

3. The Minister of Education and Training stipulates that the conditions for students are allowed to attend boarding schools, semi -boarding ethnic minority schools and university preparatory schools.

Article 62 .Specialized school, gifted school

1. Specialized school established at high school for students achieving excellent results in learning to develop the talent of a number of subjects on the basis of ensuring comprehensive general education, creating a source of peachescreate talents, meet the country's development requirements.

School of art, physical training and sports is established to develop students' talents in these areas.

2. The State prioritizes the arrangement of teachers, facilities, equipment and budgets for specialized schools and gifted schools established by the State;There are preferential policies for gifted schools established by organizations and individuals.

3. Minister of Education and Training, Minister of Labor, War Invalids and Social Affairs, within the scope of their duties and powers, regulations on improved education programs, organization and operation regulationsof specialized schools, gifted schools.

Article 63. School and class for people with disabilities

1. The State established and encouraged organizations and individuals to establish schools and classes for people with disabilities to help people with disabilities be rehabilitated, studied culture, vocational training and community integration.

2. The State prioritizes the arrangement of teachers, facilities, equipment and budgets for schools and classes for people with disabilities established by the State;There are preferential policies for schools and classes for people with disabilities established by organizations and individuals.

Article 64.

1. The reformatory is responsible for educating minors to violate the law so that this subject can train and develop healthy, become honest and able to reintegrate into social life.

2. The Minister of Public Security is responsible for presiding over and coordinating with the Minister of Education and Training, the Minister of Labor, War Invalids and Social Affairs stipulates the educational program for reformatory.

Article 65. Other educational institutions

1. Other educational institutions in the national education system include:

a) Independent group of independent kindergartens, independent preschool classes, illiteracy classes, foreign language classes, informatics classes, and classes for disadvantaged children who cannot go to school., class for children with disabilities;

b) Center for Continuing Education, Vocational Education Center - Continuing Education, Vocational Education Center, Community Learning Center, Center for Integration Education Development Support, other centersperform continuing education tasks;

c) The Academy of Academic and the Institute was established by the Prime Minister in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Science and Technology, which is allowed to train doctoral degrees.

2. The head of other educational institutions prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article is responsible for the quality of education, management and administration of educational institutions in accordance with the law.

3. The Government details the conditions, competence to establish, allow the establishment, merger, division, separation, dissolution and suspension of the activities of the educational institution specified at Points a and b, Clause 1This, except for vocational education centers.Minister of Education and Training, Minister of Labor, War Invalids and Social Affairs, within the scope of their duties and powers, regulations on organization and operation of educational institutions prescribed at the pointA and point b, Clause 1 of this Article.

Chapter IV

Teacher

Section 1. Position, role and standard of teachers

Article 66. Position and role of teachers

1. Teachers are responsible for teaching and educating in educational institutions, except for educational institutions prescribed at Point c, Clause 1, Article 65 of this Law.

Teachers teach at preschool, general education, other educational institutions, teaching primary and intermediate levels called teachers;Teachers teach college level or higher called lecturers.

2. Teachers have a decisive role in ensuring the quality of education, having an important position in society, honored by society.

Article 67. Standard of Teachers

Teachers must meet the following criteria:

1. Having good quality, thought, morality;

2. Meet career standards according to the job position;

3. Having skills to update and improve professional and professional capacity;

4. Ensure health according to career requirements.

Article 68. Professor, Associate Professor

1. Professor and associate professor are the titles of teachers who are teaching and scientific research at higher education institutions that meet the standards of professors and associate professors appointed by higher education institutions.

2. The Prime Minister stipulates the standards and procedures for appointment and dismissal of the title of Professor and Associate Professor.

Section 2. Tasks and rights of teachers

Article 69. Tasks of teachers

1. Teaching and educating according to the goals, principles of educational, fully implemented and has the quality of educational programs.

2. Exemplary performance of citizenship obligations, school charter, conduct rules of teachers.

3. Maintain the quality, prestige and honor of teachers;respect and treat learners fairly;protect the legitimate rights and interests of learners.

4. Learning and practicing to improve the moral qualities, political, professional and professional qualifications, innovate teaching methods, set good example for learners.

Article 70. Rights of teachers

1. Uyen subject training.

2. Be trained and fostered to improve political, professional and professional qualifications.

3. Get the visiting contract, scientific research at other educational institutions or scientific research institutions.

4. Be respected, protect dignity, honor and body.

5. Summer vacation as prescribed by the Government and other holidays as prescribed by law.

Article 71. Visiting lectures

1. Visiting is that the educational institution invite people to meet the criteria specified in Article 67 of this Law to teach.The person who is taught by the educational institution is called a visiting teacher or a visiting lecturer.

2. Teachers and lecturers must perform the tasks specified in Article 69 of this Law.Visiting teachers and lecturers who are cadres, civil servants and public employees must ensure the completion of the tasks where they work.

3. Encourage the invitation of teachers, domestic scientists, scientists who are Vietnamese residing abroad and foreigners to teach at educational institutions under the visiting regime.

Section 3. Training and fostering teachers

Article 72. The standard level of teacher trained

1. The standard level of the teacher is prescribed as follows:

a) Having a pedagogical diploma or higher for preschool teachers;

b) Having a bachelor's degree in teachers' training or higher for primary, junior high school and high school teachers.

In case the subject is not enough teachers with a bachelor's degree in the teacher training industry, there must be an appropriate bachelor's degree and a certificate of pedagogical training;

c) Having a master's degree for teachers teaching university level;have a doctorate with a teacher teaching, guiding master's thesis and doctoral thesis;

d) The standard qualifications of teachers teaching in vocational education institutions comply with the provisions of the Vocational Education Law.

2. The Government stipulates that the roadmap to raise the standard level of preschool, elementary and junior high school teachers specified at Points a and b, Clause 1 of this Article.Minister of Education and Training, Minister of Labor, War Invalids and Social Affairs, within the scope of their duties and powers, stipulating the use of teachers in case of failing to meet the provisions of Clause 1This.

Article 73. Training and fostering teachers

1. The State has a policy of training and retraining to improve the political, professional and professional qualifications for teachers;Teachers are sent to training and retraining are entitled to salaries and allowances according to the Government's regulations.

2. The educational institution is responsible for creating conditions for teachers to be trained and fostered to meet the standards in accordance with the law.

Article 74. Educational institutions perform the tasks of training and fostering teachers and educational managers

1. Educational institutions perform the tasks of training and retraining teachers including pedagogical schools, educational institutions with pedagogical departments, educational institutions allowed to train and foster teachers.

2. Educational institutions perform the tasks of training and retraining educational managers including pedagogical schools, higher education institutions with the Faculty of Education Management, educational institutions allowed to train and fosterEducational manager.

3. Pedagogical school established by the State to train and foster teachers and educational managers is given priority in recruiting teachers, arranging educational managers, investing in building establishmentsMaterial, dormitory and ensure training costs.Pedagogical School has practical schools or practice facilities.

4. Minister of Education and Training, Minister of Labor, War Invalids and Social Affairs, within the scope of their duties and powers, stipulating the performance of training and retraining tasks, teachers, teachers,Educational managers and educational institutions are allowed to train and foster teachers and educational managers.

Section 4. Policy for teachers

Article 75. Vietnamese Teachers Day

November 20 every year is Vietnamese Teachers' Day.

Article 76. Salary

Teachers are ranked in accordance with job positions and occupational labor;Priority is given to giving special allowances in accordance with the Government's regulations.

Article 77. Policy for teachers

1. The State has a policy of recruiting, using, remuneration, ensuring the necessary material and mental conditions for teachers to fulfill their roles and tasks.

2. Teachers working at specialized schools, gifted schools, boarding ethnic minority schools, semi -boarding ethnic minority schools, reserve schools, schools, classes for people with disabilities, reformatory schools or schoolsOther specifically, teachers who perform integrated education are entitled to allowances and preferential policies.

3. The State has policies to encourage and incentives on allowances and other policies for teachers working in areas with extremely difficult socio -economic conditions.

4. The Government details this.

Article 78. Award the title of People's Teacher, Excellent Teacher

Teachers, educational managers, educational researchers are qualified according to the provisions of law, they are awarded the title of People's Teachers and Excellent Teachers by the State.

Article 79. Giving the title of Doctor Project, honor professor

1Awarded by higher education institutions awarded the title of honorary doctor.

2. Political and social activists with international prestige, teachers, scientists are Vietnamese residing abroad, foreigners have contributed to the cause of education and science of Vietnam, with a doctorate, awarded the title of Honorary Professor by the higher education institution.

3. The Government details this.

Chapter v

Educator

Section 1. Tasks and rights of learners

Article 80. Learners

Learners are studying at educational institutions in the national education system including:

1. Children of preschool education institutions;

2. Students of general education institutions, vocational training courses, vocational education centers - continuing education, vocational education centers, intermediate schools, reserve schools;

3. Students of colleges and universities;

4. Master training institutions;

5. PhD students of doctoral training institutions;

6. Students attend continuing education program.

Article 81. Children's rights and policies for children at preschool education institutions

1. Children at preschool educational institutions have the following rights:

a) To be cared for, nurtured and educated under the preschool education program issued by the Minister of Education and Training;have health care and protection in accordance with the Children's Law and other relevant laws;

b) To be exempted and discounted fares for public entertainment and entertainment services.

2. The Government stipulates policies for children at preschool education institutions.

Article 82. The mission of learners

1. Study and train according to the curriculum, educational plan, the code of conduct of the educational institution.

2. Respect teachers, officials and employees of educational institutions;unite and help each other in learning and training;implementing rules, rules and regulations of educational institutions;comply with the law.

3. Participate in labor and social activities, environmental protection activities suitable for age, health and capacity.

4. Preserving and protecting the property of educational institutions.

5. Contribute to building, protecting and promoting the tradition of educational institutions.

Article 83. Rights of learners

1. Be educated, learned to develop comprehensively and promote your own potential.

2.equality of education and learning opportunities;develop talent, gifted, creative and invention;Fully provided with information about their learning and training.

3. Be out of class, study short time to implement the program, study at age than the prescribed age, study time extending time, study and save you, are facilitated to study educational programs according to regulationslaw.

4. Be studying in a safe and healthy educational environment.

5. Be granted diplomas, certificates, confirmation after graduation level, training level and complete the educational program as prescribed.

6. To participate in activities of mass organizations and social organizations in educational institutions in accordance with the law.

7. Used facilities, libraries, equipment and facilities for learning, cultural, physical training and sports activities of educational institutions.

8. Be directly or through its legal representative to propose to the educational establishment with solutions to contribute to building educational institutions, protecting the rights and interests of learners.

9. Enjoy the priority policy of the State in recruiting into state agencies if graduated with good and good ethics.

10.

Section 2. Policy for learners

Article 84. Educational credit

The State has preferential credit policies on interest rates, conditions and loan terms for learners to study conditions.Encourage socialization of educational credit activities.

Article 85. Scholarships, social allowances, exemptions and reductions of tuition fees, support for tuition and living expenses

1. The State has a scholarship policy to encourage learning for students to achieve excellent academic results in specialized schools, gifted schools specified in Article 62 of this Law and learners with academic resultsFrom good or higher in vocational education institutions, higher education institutions;issuing policy scholarships for students to recruit the recruitment system, students of the Preparatory School, Ethnic Minority High School, learners in vocational education institutions for war invalids and people with disabilities.

2. The State has a policy of subsidies and exemption and reduction of tuition fees for learners who are entitled to social policies and ethnic minorities in areas with extremely difficult socio -economic conditions, childrenOrphaned, children without any refuge, people with disabilities, people of poor households and near -poor households.

3. The State encourages organizations and individuals to issue scholarships or allowances to learners in accordance with the law.

4. Pedagogical students are supported with tuition and living expenses throughout the course.People who are supported with tuition fees and living expenses after 02 years from graduation if they do not work in the education sector or the work does not have enough time, they must refund the funding that the State has supported.aid.The maximum return period is equal to the training period.

Pedagogical students are entitled to scholarship policies to encourage learning, social allowances, exempt and reduce tuition fees specified in Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article.

5. The Government details this.

Article 86. Immunity and discount of public service tickets for students and students

Students are entitled to the exemption and reduction of fares when using public services on traffic, entertainment, visiting museums, historical monuments, cultural works as prescribed by the Government.

Article 87. Recruitment regime

1. The State performs enrollments to intermediate, college and university according to the election regime for students who are ethnic minorities very few people;Students who are ethnic minorities in areas with extremely difficult socio -economic conditions do not have or have very few cadres, civil servants and public employees who are ethnic minorities;There are policies to create recruitment sources, create favorable conditions for these subjects to attend boarding schools and increase the time for college preparation.

2. The provincial People's Committee shall base on the needs of the local proposal and allocate the recruitment targets;send people to school according to the approved standard and target;Admission and job layout for learners after graduation.

The educational institution is responsible for supporting learners according to the recruitment regime to ensure the output quality.

3. Readers according to the recruitment regime are responsible for returning to work in the locality where the place of appointment is sent to school;Admission and job layout.

4. The Government details standard and subjects entitled to the recruitment regime;The organization of the recruitment regime and the recruitment of learners according to the recruitment regime after graduation.

Article 88. Reward for learners

Learners have achievements in learning and training educational institutions and educational management agencies;In case of particularly excellent achievements, they are rewarded according to the provisions of law.

Chapter VI

Responsibilities of the school, family and society in education

Article 89. Responsibility of the school

1. The school is responsible for implementing the plan of universal education and code of conduct;proactively coordinate with families and society to organize or participate in educational activities according to the school's plan, ensuring safety for teachers and learners;Notice of students' learning and training results to parents or guardians.

2.

Article 90. Responsibility of the family

1. Parents or guardians are responsible for nurturing, education and care, creating conditions for children or guardians to study, implement universal education, complete compulsory education, and train., participating in school activities;Respect the teacher, not to offend the dignity, honor, to violate the teacher's body.

2. Family members are responsible for building a cultural family, creating a favorable environment for the comprehensive development of children's virtue, mind, body and beauty;Older people are responsible for educating, set up children's example, and the school to improve the quality and effectiveness of education.

Article 91. Responsibilities of parents or guardians of students

1. Receive information about the results of the child's academic and training results.

2. Participate in educational activities according to the school's plan;Participate in the activities of the Representative Board of parents in the school.

3. Coordinate with the school, the educational management agency to solve issues related to the education of children or the guardians as prescribed.

Article 92. Representative board of parents, preschool children

1. Representative board of parents, preschool children are organized in each school year in general education and preschool education, by parents or guardians, preschool children in each class, each school sentto coordinate with the school in caring, nurturing, educating students, preschool children and operating in accordance with the Minister of Education and Training.

2. Do not organize the representative board of parents, inter -school preschool children and at administrative levels.

Article 93. Responsibility of society

1. Agencies, organizations and individuals are responsible for the following:

a) Support and cooperate with the school to organize educational and scientific research activities;create conditions for teachers and learners to visit, experience, practice and scientific research;

b) Participate in building a safe and healthy educational environment, preventing activities adversely affecting learners;

c) Create conditions for citizens of the age regulation of fulfilling learning obligations to perform universal education, completing compulsory education for learners to have fun, cultural activities, physical training and sports.healthy;

d) Support resources for developing educational career according to their ability.

2. Fatherland Front V iet Nam and its member organizations are responsible for encouraging the entire people to take care of the education career.

3.Development of educational career.

Article 94. Study Encouragement Fund, Education Support Fund

The State encourages organizations and individuals to establish a study encouragement fund and educational sponsor fund.The establishment and operation of the Study Encouragement Fund and Education Fund shall comply with the provisions of law.

Chapter VII

Investment and finance in education

Article 95. Investment finance for education

Investment financial resources for education include:

1. State budget;

2. Legal investment capital of domestic and foreign organizations and individuals;

3. Revenue from education, training, science and technology services;service service, support educational activities of educational institutions;revenue from production and business activities;Bank deposit interest and other legitimate revenue as prescribed by law;

4. Order funding, assignment of the State;

5. Loan source;

6. Finance, aid and donation to domestic and foreign organizations and individuals.

Article 96. State budget invested in education

1. The state is the top priority for the allocation of education budget, ensuring that the state budget for education and training is at least 20% of the total state budget expenditure.

2. The state budget spent on education is allocated on the principle of publicity and democracy;Based on the scale of education and socio -economic development of each region;Ensuring the budget to implement universal education and education development in ethnic minority areas and areas with extremely difficult socio -economic conditions.

The State is responsible for allocating full and timely funding to implement universal education and in accordance with the progress of the school year.

3.

Article 97. Priority for financial investment and school construction land

Ministries, ministerial -level agencies, People's Councils and People's Committees at all levels are responsible for putting the construction of schools, physical training, sports, culture and art for education in planning and planningsocio -economic development of the industry and localities;Prioritize financial and land investment for school construction and dormitories for students and students in the socio -economic development plan.

Article 98. Encouraging investment for education

1. The State encourages and creates conditions for organizations and individuals to invest, contribute intelligence, effort and property for education.

2. The contributions and funding for education of organizations and individuals deducted when determining taxable income in accordance with the tax law.

3. Organizations and individuals investing in construction works for education;Contribute, sponsor, support money or artifacts to develop an educational career considered to be recorded in the appropriate form.

Article 99. Tuition fees and expenses of education and training services

1. Tuition is the amount of money learners must pay to pay a part or all of the cost of education and training services.The tuition fee is determined according to the roadmap to ensure the cost of education and training services prescribed by the Government;For vocational education institutions, higher education institutions comply with the provisions of the Vocational Education Law and the Higher Education Law.

2. Expenses for education and training services include all expenses, direct costs, management costs, and depreciation expenses for fixed assets to directly and indirectly educational activitiescurriculum.

The amount of admission services that the recruiter must submit when participating in the admission or recruitment exam is determined according to the right and sufficient plan.

3. Primary students in public educational institutions do not have to pay tuition;In the area where there is not enough public school, elementary school students in private educational institutions are supported by the State to pay tuition fees and support levels decided by the provincial People's Council.

4.

5. 05 -year -old preschool children are not subject to Clause 4 of this Article and junior high school students are exempted from tuition fees according to the schedule prescribed by the Government.

6. Mechanism of collection and management of tuition fees, service revenues in educational activities are prescribed as follows:

a) The Government stipulates the mechanism of collecting and managing tuition fees for preschool education institutions, general education institutions, vocational education institutions, public higher education institutions;

b) The provincial People's Council shall decide the tuition framework or specific tuition fees, service revenues, support the school's educational activities for public educational institutions according to its management competenceThe State on education on the basis of the proposal of the provincial People's Committee;

c) People's Committee T Regulating the mechanism of collection and use of enrollment services at all levels managed by localities after being approved by the provincial People's Council;

d) Private educational institutions, private educational institutions are entitled to actively build tuition rates and other services to ensure expenses and reasonable accumulation.Publicize the cost of education and training services and the collection level according to the commitments in the scheme of establishing the school, publicity for each course, level and school year as prescribed by law.

Article 100. Tax incentives for textbooks and documents, teaching equipment

Publishing textbooks, curriculum, teaching materials;Producing and supplying teaching equipment and toys for children in preschool education institutions;Import books, newspapers, teaching materials, learning, teaching equipment, research equipment used in educational institutions are preferential tax incentives in accordance with tax laws.

Article 101. Financial regime for educational institutions

1. Public educational institutions manage revenues, financial expenditures, manage the use of assets in accordance with the State Budget Law, the Law on Management and use of public assets and other regulations of Francerelevant laws;Implementing the accounting, auditing, tax and financial mode according to the provisions of law.

2. Private education institutions, private educational institutions operate on the principle of financial autonomy, implementation of accounting, auditing, tax, asset valuation and financial publicity according to regulationsof the law.Revenues of private educational institutions, private educational institutions are used to pay for activities of educational institutions, fulfill their obligations to the state budget, establish development investment funds and other budgets and other.Other funds of educational institutions, the rest is divided among investors according to the percentage of capital contribution, except for educational institutions operating without profit.

3. Educational institutions must publish the cost of education and training services and the fee rate for each school year for preschool education and general education;For each school year and expected for the whole course for vocational education and higher education.

Article 102. Owners of assets and capital transfer to private schools, private schools

1. Property of private schools owned by the school legal entity.The property of the private school is protected by the State in accordance with the law.

2. Property of private schools owned by investors, formed from investors' capital contribution, is determined by the investor's capital contribution record.The transfer of capital contribution to the school complies with the law.

3. The transfer of capital for private schools and private schools must ensure the stability and development of the school, and are complied with the Government's regulations.

Article 103. Preferential policies for private schools and private schools

1tax and credit;Being guaranteed by the State to implement policies for learners specified in Article 85 of this Law.

2. The Government details this.

Chapter VIII

State management of education

Section 1. Content of state management of education and state management agencies on education

Article 104. Content of state management of education

1. Develop and direct the implementation of educational strategies, plans, policies and policies.

2. Promulgating and organizing the implementation of legal documents on education;Promulgating the school's charter, educational institutions, organization and operation regulations of educational institutions, the Charter of the Representative Board of the parents' parents;regulations on teaching and education activities in schools and outside schools;regulations on evaluation of learning and training results;reward and discipline for learners.

3. Regulating titles, working regimes of teachers and educational managers;List of job position frames and number of people working in educational institutions;criteria for the head and deputy head of the heads of educational institutions;criteria for the title of the head and deputy head of the head of the educational agency under the provincial and district -level People's Committees;teacher standards;Promulgating the Code of Conduct of Teachers and educational institutions;Regulations on conditions, standards and forms of recruiting teachers.

4. Regulations on educational objectives, programs and content;national level framework;teacher standards;standards and norms for using facilities, libraries and school equipment;the compilation and use of textbooks and curriculum;the exam, examination, enrollment, training and management of diplomas and certificates;The recognition of a degree issued by foreign educational institutions is used in Vietnam.

5. Regulations on education quality assessment;organize and manage the quality of education and education quality accreditation.

6. Perform statistical work, information on organization and educational activities.

7. Organizing the educational management apparatus.

8 .Organize and direct the training, retraining and management of teachers and educational managers.

9. Mobilize, manage and use resources to develop education.

10. Organize and manage research and application of science and technology in the field of education.

11. Organize and manage international cooperation and investment activities of foreign education.

12. Inspecting and examining the observance of the law on education;settle complaints, denunciations, reward and handle violations of law in education.

Article 105. The state management agency on education

1. The Government unified state management of education.

The Government submitted to the National Assembly before deciding on a large policy that affects the rights and obligations of citizens throughout the country, the policy of reforming the program content of a school level;Annually, report to the National Assembly on educational activities and the implementation of education budget;submitted to the Standing Committee of the National Assembly before deciding on the application of mass to the new policy in education that has been successfully piloted, the mass application will affect the rights and obligations of the citizen.Nationwide.

2. The Ministry of Education and Training is responsible to the Government to perform the state management of preschool education, general education, higher education, pedagogical intermediate, pedagogical college, continuing education.

3. The Ministry of Labor, War Invalids and Social Affairs is responsible to the Government to perform the state management of vocational education, except for pedagogical intermediate and pedagogical college.

4. Ministry, ministerial -level agencies, within the scope of their duties and powers, are responsible for coordinating with the Ministry of Education and Training, the Ministry of Labor, War Invalids and Social Affairs to perform the State management of teachers on Teachingsex.

5. People's Committees at all levels performing the state management of education according to the decentralization of the Government, within the scope of their duties and powers, performing the following tasks:

a) Checking the observance of the law on education of educational institutions in the area;

b) Ensuring the conditions of teachers, finance, facilities, libraries and teaching equipment of public schools under their management;

c) Developing all types of schools, implementing education socialization;ensure to meet the requirements of expanding scale, improving the quality and effectiveness of education in the locality;

d) Implementing the guidelines and policies of the State and local policies to ensure autonomy and responsibility for the implementation of the duties and the quality of education of educational institutions under the management scope;

d) Take responsibility for the results of implementing the local education strategy, planning, planning and policies.

Section 2. International cooperation on education

Article 106. Principles of international cooperation on education

The State expands and develops international cooperation on education on the principle of respect for independence, national sovereignty, equality and beneficial parties.

Article 107. Cooperation on education with foreign countries

1. The State encourages and creates conditions for Vietnam's educational institutions to cooperate with foreign organizations and individuals and Vietnamese residing abroad in teaching, learning and scientific research.

2. The State encourages and creates conditions for Vietnamese citizens to teach, study, scientific research and academic exchange in the form of self -sufficient or equal funding by domestic organizations and individualsgranted or funded by foreign organizations and individuals.

3. The State reserves the budget to send people to qualify for the quality, morality and the level of study and study abroad on the key industries, professions and fields to serve the cause of construction and security.Fatherland.

4. The Government stipulates that Vietnamese citizens to teach, study, scientific research and academic exchange;The cooperation on education with foreign organizations, individuals and Vietnamese residing abroad.

Article 108. Cooperation and investment of foreign countries in education

1. Foreign organizations and individuals, international organizations and Vietnamese residing overseas are encouraged and created conditions for teaching, learning, investment, funding, cooperation and research.Science, application and technology transfer on education in Vietnam;Protected legal rights and interests according to Vietnamese law and international treaties that the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is a member.

2. Cooperation on education with Vietnam must ensure educational education on personality, quality and citizen capacity;respect the national cultural identity;implementing educational objectives, requirements on content and educational methods suitable to each level and training level in the national education system;Educational activities in accordance with the provisions of Vietnamese law.

3. Forms of cooperation and investment of foreign education in Vietnam include:

a) Linking education and training;

b) Establishing a representative office;

c) Establishing the branch;

d) Establish educational institutions;

d) Other forms of cooperation and investment.

4. The Government details this.

Article 109. Recognizing foreign degrees

1. Diploma issued by foreign educational institutions is recognized for use Vietnam in the following case:

a) Diploma issued by general education institutions, overseas higher education institutions to learners after completing the quality assurance education program in accordance with the provisions of the degree water supply and the competent agency isThe country's educational rights recognition;

b) Diploma by foreign educational institutions operating in another country where educational institutions are headquartered to learners, which are authorized by the competent authority of 02 countries.or perform cooperation, linkage and meet the provisions of Point a of this Clause;

c) Diploma issued by foreign educational institutions in Vietnam, carrying out educational activities according to the regulations on cooperation and investment on education issued by the Government, as approved by the agency.competent and meet the provisions of Point a of this Clause.

2. The Minister of Education and Training, within the scope of his duties and powers, signed an international agreement on the equivalent of a diploma or a mutual recognition of diplomas;detailing conditions, order, procedures and authority to recognize diplomas;Providing information about higher quality education institutions recognized by the host country.

The recognition of vocational education diplomas issued by foreign countries complies with the provisions of the Vocational Education Law.

Section 3. Education quality testing

Article 110. Objectives, principles, subjects of education quality accreditation

1. The educational quality testing goals are prescribed as follows:

a) Ensuring and improving the quality of education;

b) Confirm the level of response to the goals of educational institutions or training programs in each period;

c) To serve as a basis for the educational institution to explain with the owner, competent state agencies, stakeholders and society on the reality of education quality;

d) As a basis for learners to choose educational institutions and training programs, for employers to select human resources.

2. Education quality accreditation must ensure the following principles:

a) Independence, objectivity and law;

b) Honest, public and transparent;

c) Equality, mandatory, periodic.

3. Subjects of educational quality accreditation include:

a) Educational institutions for preschool education, general education and continuing education;

b) Educational institutions and training programs for vocational education and higher education.

Article 111. Content of state management of education quality accreditation

1. Promulgating regulations on criteria for evaluating education quality;The process and cycle of educational quality accreditation at each level, training level;Principles of operation, conditions and standards of organizations and individuals activities of educational quality accreditation;licensing educational quality accreditation activities;grant and revoke the certificate of education quality accreditation.

2. Manage the inspection of training programs and educational institutions.

3. Guide organizations, individuals and educational institutions to evaluate and inspect the quality of education.

4. Checking and evaluating the implementation of regulations on educational quality accreditation.

Article 112. Educational quality accreditation organization

1. Educational quality accreditation organization includes:

a) Organization of educational quality accreditation established by the State;

b) Organization of educational quality accreditation established by domestic and foreign organizations and individuals;

c) Organization of foreign education quality accreditation.

2. The organization of educational quality accreditation is prescribed as follows:

a) The Government stipulates the conditions and procedures for establishment, allowing operations, suspension and dissolution of education quality accreditation organization;defining conditions and procedures for organizing the quality accreditation of foreign education are recognized in Vietnam;

b) The Minister of Education and Training decides to establish or permit the establishment, allowing the operation, suspension of operation, dissolving the educational quality accreditation organization and the responsibilities and powers of the group.Education quality accreditation for preschool education, general education and continuing education;decision to recognize and revoke the decision to recognize the foreign education quality accreditation organization operating in Vietnam;stipulate the supervision and evaluation of educational quality accreditation organizations;

c) Inspection of education quality for vocational education and higher education comply with the provisions of the Law on Vocational Education and the Law on Higher Education.

Chapter IX

Terms of implementation

Article 113. Amending and supplementing a number of articles of the Law on Vocational Education No. 74/2014/QH13 has been amended and supplemented a number of articles under the Law No. 97/2015/QH13 and Law No. 21/2017/QH14

1. Modify and supplement points A and b, Clause 3, Article 32 as follows:

“A) People with high school diploma or certificates of completion of the general education program or certificates of certificates are full requirements for high school cultural knowledge, with a good intermediate diploma.becoming and registering to study with specialized training or training;

b) People with high school diploma or certificate H ACCOUNTING THE MODERS PROGRAM or Certificate of sufficient requirements for the high school cultural knowledge, with a good intermediate diploma, at least 02 years of work according to specialized or profession has beentraining and registering to study with specialized or training profession; ”.

2. Modify and supplement Clause 3, Article 33 as follows:

“3.The period of training in the Youth Union is carried out from 02 to 03 years of study depending on the specialty or training profession for people with high school diploma;From 01 to 02 years of study depending on the specialty or training profession for people with an intermediate diploma of the same industry, training and a high school diploma or a certificate of completion of the general education programOr the certificate of sufficient requirements for high school cultural knowledge.

Trainer of college level by mode accumulation of modules or credits is the time to accumulate enough modules or credits for each training program for people with high school diplomaOr the certificate of completion of the general education program or the certificate of sufficient requirements for high school cultural knowledge. ”.

Article 114. Implementation effect

1. This law takes effect from July 1, 2020.

2. Education Law No. 38/2005/QH11 has been amended and supplemented a number of articles in accordance with the Law No. 44/2009/QH12, Law No. 74/2014/QH13 and Law No. 97/2015/QH13This Law is effective, except for the case specified in Article 115 of this Law.

Article 115. Regulations on transfer

Pedagogical students, students attending pedagogical training courses are enrolled before this Law, which will continue to be applied in accordance with Clause 3, Article 89 of the Education Law No. 38/2005/QH11 has been amended and supplemented with a number of articles in accordance with the Law No. 44/2009/QH12, Law No. 74/2014/QH13 and Law No. 97/2015/QH13.

This law was approved by the National Assembly of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, the 7th session on June 14, 2019.





National Assembly Chairman




Nguyen Thi Kim Ngan